Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Good morning.
Can
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: You hear me.
Donna Jochimsen: Yep, I can hear you.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: How are you this morning.
Donna Jochimsen: Pretty good.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Good, good. Do you feel better today.
Donna Jochimsen: Yes, I do feel better today.
Donna Jochimsen: Michael
Donna Jochimsen: Finally, gone away a little bit
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Good, good, good. So today we're planning. It's just talking about what are some of the things that you want to work on while you're working with bright heart.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: And in our individual sessions. So if you think about some of the things that
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: That you're going through that you think you could
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Learn or develop better coping skills for what would those things look like.
Donna Jochimsen: Ah, probably self esteem.
Donna Jochimsen: My
Donna Jochimsen: And I don't know how to put my emotions control me and I'd rather not do that. That's dangerous for me.
Donna Jochimsen: I'm
Donna Jochimsen: Just personal growth. I'm stuck. I feel stuck is what I feel I can get clean i i got i was clean for a year and a half, and then I relapsed
Donna Jochimsen: For about a month before I got a hold of bright heart. So it was a short relapse I I soon as I did it. I knew I didn't want to do that did not want to go back to that.
Donna Jochimsen: I
Donna Jochimsen: I feel like I need to grow, I feel, I feel that all the years that I use. I stayed the same. I didn't grow. I, I didn't become myself and I feel I need to do that now. Or I want to do that now.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Okay, so what do you think that you're
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: What do you think that that self would look like.
Donna Jochimsen: I think it would look like a happy person that got him was involved with with life and
Donna Jochimsen: And and even my kids lives and and and loved life again.
Donna Jochimsen: I I isolate. I'm a terrible isolator
Donna Jochimsen: I'm perfectly happy. Well not perfectly happy but perfectly willing to just, I live alone. And I just, I can be alone all the time and be and not I'm not happy that way. But I don't know how to say that
Donna Jochimsen: I do it, but I know that if I'm not really happy.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: It's comfortable, they're
Donna Jochimsen: Comfortable. I guess that would be it. I'm I'm terribly uncomfortable around people. I am i did not feel comfortable and I'm put in Scituate situations with people.
Donna Jochimsen: Especially that I don't know but but even people. I do know I don't feel like I have anything to say.
Donna Jochimsen: And probably because I don't do much. You know, I don't have an interest in life. I don't have a lot to I don't feel I have a lot to contribute.
Donna Jochimsen: And I know that's what gets me in trouble that I've clicked using three times and I've got a pattern, about a year and a half. I all three times. I was clean. A year and a half on relapse.
Donna Jochimsen: That's a, that's a point for me. But that's because I i can quit. I can do that part. But I don't I don't keep going. I don't grow up, you know, I don't grow. After that, I, I'm still the same.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: What do you think your barriers are to making the changes that you want to see in your life.
Donna Jochimsen: I don't know.
Donna Jochimsen: Fear. Fear of not being successful at it a fear of being rejected.
Donna Jochimsen: I don't, I don't know, I'm not sure exactly what my barriers are and and just not not knowing
Donna Jochimsen: Not knowing how to
Donna Jochimsen: Do to go about it. I, I know how to be a drug addict. But I don't know how to not be
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: You know, yeah.
Donna Jochimsen: It's different.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Yeah, it is different. And, you know, one thing that I know is successful people had to fail at something several times before they became successful at it.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: You know what I mean.
Donna Jochimsen: Yeah, I do know what you mean.
Donna Jochimsen: I've been. I've been looking for an online group to join and I found a couple that I'm that I'm really interested in, they're not in a but I found women for sobriety.
Donna Jochimsen: Yeah, and smart recovery.
Donna Jochimsen: Time.
Donna Jochimsen: Yeah, I haven't decided I'm going back and forth between the two. But they seem to be more more in tune with personal growth.
Donna Jochimsen: Rather than rather than what you've done wrong. You know how you got here. I know how I got here that I know.
Donna Jochimsen: But but moving forward from here. That's, that's where I feel stuck.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: I think that joining a a women's group is really powerful because what happens is that we uplift one another. Right.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: And build on our qualities and you know help
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: support and help each other, become successful and overcome the barriers and, you know, it sounds like some of the things, just so that
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: We can get this on record is that you need to develop self esteem.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: I do and emotion regulation.
Definitely
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: And to getting outside of your comfort zone.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: And
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: trying new things.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Yep, I would
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: What on some of the goals for each one, you know, building your self esteem, you know, your goal would look like stepping outside of your comfort zone and trying new things and trying new self care techniques for you.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Putting affirmations up in your room.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Things that you have to repetitively say to yourself about yourself that are that are positive.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Changing your mindset about who you are.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Yeah, you know, is a big one.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: And definitely emotional regulation would be one and so that you can
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: React, you know, in a confident manner.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Not devoid of emotion, but have them a piece of it intact, you know,
Donna Jochimsen: Yeah, I let my emotions run me and instead of just, you know, having emotions.
Donna Jochimsen: And dealing with them. They like overtake me
Donna Jochimsen: Part of it. Part of it, I think, is my bipolar. But I know that there's, I know I can do better. I know that there's ways to control that I just don't know what they are.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Well,
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: I think you came to the right place.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: You know, but definitely to start working on building self esteem, it's about doing things for you and it feels it can feel selfish, at times, especially when we have a life of caretaking for others.
Donna Jochimsen: Yeah, it's really hard for me to even carve out time right now, actually, right now. My dad is staying, my brothers, because I was sick, and I am so hoping that that works out and he stays there.
Donna Jochimsen: He doesn't want to my brothers willing. So I'm just praying that that he would that he wants to stay
Donna Jochimsen: It would be so much better.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Even if you could have part time part time part time. You know what I mean, that would be better.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Definitely, because you would be able to have that those days that you can focus on your recovery focus on getting outside of your box.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Doing and exploring new things that have always made you feel uncomfortable because that's a piece of it is being comfortable in the uncomfortable blip comfortable ability. I can't say that word.
Donna Jochimsen: I know, but I guess you would do that by doing over and over again. Right.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: It's like
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: The first time you ever got a Medicare. The first time we ever got a pedicure it's embarrassing, you know you you really didn't want to go in there, you know, your toes look like like
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Crap, and
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: You don't want other people to see your feet and you know all these reasons not to do it. And so it's about changing that mindset of saying, giving yourself all the reasons to do it.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: You know what I mean, and just really that self talk inside your head that says I am good enough. You know, this is what they do for a living. This is how they make their money. You know, I'm no different than anybody else that walks in there. You know what I'm
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Just Riley for
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Building those positive thought processes and combating those negative ones. And the more you combat those negative ones aren't. You know, I'm not good enough. Why would I want to do this, you know,
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: The more you combat those, the better you start feeling and then you see when you get outside of your comfort zone that it's really, it's tough at first, but it's really not that tough.
Donna Jochimsen: One, because
Donna Jochimsen: my comfort zone is comfortable but up but I'm lonely. I am
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: And that's really
Donna Jochimsen: It's a very lonely place to be.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: And really, honestly. In early recovery. What are the, you know, things that we have to watch out for is angry hungry lonely and tired.
Donna Jochimsen: Yeah.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: You know that puts us in a risky slip, you know, slippery place and that could possibly lead us back to
Donna Jochimsen: Well, one of the things is, is that I used for so long that everybody that I know uses right so yeah
Donna Jochimsen: I have had to cut up all of my friends.
Donna Jochimsen: And I'm not very good at making new friends because I am not very available.
Donna Jochimsen: You know,
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Well, that's why it's good that you're looking at these groups online, too.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Because that gives you a whole nother outlet. You start out small you start, start out with small baby steps, you know, checking out them checking out those meetings.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: And when you find one that that interest you engaging in that meeting. Yeah. You know what I mean. And then checking it out again and then doing it again. And sometimes it just takes one
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: foot in front of the other.
Donna Jochimsen: Yeah.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: You know, I have to do this for me. I have to do this for me. I am enough I am good enough.
Donna Jochimsen: Yeah, I'm 62 i don't i don't get another i mean
Donna Jochimsen: This is it for. I mean, I feel like this is it for me. Yeah, I need to do this. And now I don't want to live the rest of my life. Like I have, you know,
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Yeah, understandable and what a great what a great place for you to be right now to be able to build off of that desire to want something different.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: So you have to know that up.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Okay, um,
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: What will it take for you to be able to get active in your with your children and your grandkids well
Donna Jochimsen: You know it's it's really weird. I am a little bit, but I always wait. I always wait for them to call me.
Donna Jochimsen: And invite me. I know I
Donna Jochimsen: almost feel like I don't have I been such a crappy mother and grandmother that I don't have a right to be be the one that calls them and says,
Donna Jochimsen: Hey you know that malls, some of them, most of them live out of town. But there are a couple that are nearby you know and i don't know i i just feel
Donna Jochimsen: Like I don't have the right to insinuate myself and in their life. And I also don't feel like when we talk. I don't have a lot to say. Because I don't do a lot
Donna Jochimsen: And they don't want to hear about about, you know, my groups and the things that I do with recovery. So I will that they do a little bit. But that's, I don't have a lot to say if I suppose if I got more active that I would feel a little differently about pad.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: And getting active, but then it also calling to listen is another thing and not worrying so much about what you have to say but worrying about what you have to listen to. That's another piece of it. And that's the beginning, you know,
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: You know, one tool that you can do is get your kids all in a group chat on your phone.
Donna Jochimsen: They have a group chat, but they don't involve me and I you know I know why because half because partly because they use it to talk about me but you know i mean they're concerned about me, they are
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: And what a great step to make to be able to say, okay, we're starting something new. I want to even having daily
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Text messages back and forth. I love you. Good morning, kids. I love you. I hope you all have a great day period, you know,
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: At the end of the day, something simple like I hope your guys's day went great. You know,
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: I
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: will talk to you tomorrow. You know what I mean. But really just putting yourself out there a little bit with them.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Yeah, and letting them see that you're making these efforts to do things different you know
Donna Jochimsen: Yeah, that's good, I guess.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Just little things just small little things, you know, daily just daily texting. I love you guys, I hope you guys have a great day. You know, shows that shows them that mom's doing something different. She is reaching out
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: You know what I mean, and not holding not having any attachment to the outcome, like not getting hurt if they don't respond. That's okay. This is something new for you. And so just putting it out there today so that they know I'm thinking of. Yeah, I love you.
Donna Jochimsen: But that's a good idea. I, I feel, I feel bad about how I've been with my kids I've, I've not been the best mom.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: I don't think
Donna Jochimsen: I've not been the mom they deserve. Let's put it that way.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Okay, well, you, you think about your addiction and how it takes it takes right we have this miss concept that what we're getting out of it is
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Is good but in reality it's a taker. It's not a giver and
So,
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Knowing that piece and knowing that you're trying to do something different and also realizing that you can't go back and do anything about the past.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Right and letting go of some of that guilt, around, around the past but just putting yourself out there to be present today because you're right. What we have is today. I think when I realized that I had been on this planet, longer than I'm going to be on this planet.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: You know what I mean, that was
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: A mind blowing concept to me cuz I was like, I gotta get busy with life right i and
Donna Jochimsen: I feel that way. I do you know
Donna Jochimsen: Now's the time
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Yeah, definitely. And there's nothing wrong with setting you know boundaries with your dad. And again, coming with that compromise, saying, Dad, I need to get, get my life together to so
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: You know brothers going to keep yet you know even half time I'll keep you, you know, or even you keeping them for a day or two and then letting your brother happen for the rest of the time I leave it so much pressure and stress for you and allows you to be able to build yourself up.
Donna Jochimsen: Dementia is a horrible disease.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: It is a horrible disease.
Donna Jochimsen: It's it takes. I mean it. It took me a while to to find my patients with them. I, I finally realized that he's like a two year old kid again yeah and and when I thought about it that way. I came very patient with them, but it's frustrating. It's hard.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Yeah, and to be you know somebody that takes care of apparent like that can be overwhelming.
Donna Jochimsen: It can be overwhelming. There's no doubt about that.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: So, you know, I'm glad that your brother's a willing. You know what I mean to step in and take over some of the responsibilities and
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: That you're willing to let him do that too.
Donna Jochimsen: Yeah, I'm more than willing to let him do that and the reason that I ended up being the being his caretaker is because my brother, where he works if I didn't. And so
Donna Jochimsen: I just by default became the care caregiver and my brother was doing nothing, really.
Donna Jochimsen: He would call him, maybe a couple times, who he was, he was on his way to work and so he'd left it all to me. So it would only it would only be right if my brother has him for a while.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Yeah, definitely. That way you can start working on you a little bit and get a little bit out of your comfort zone. And again, it'll be baby steps, not any huge
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Things right away. You know, you want to make sure that you get comfortable in each step before you take the next one.
Donna Jochimsen: Okay.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: And that's really kind of how we build our self esteem, how we let go of, you know, the guilt and the shame of the past, but really just starting one little baby step at a time and getting active in these groups that you found
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: And making you know connections with your kids by putting yourself out there in the again in the morning, you know,
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Getting up and reading a daily meditation is so important to, you know, putting positivity in your head when you get up to start your day, but also before you go to bed.
Donna Jochimsen: I do before I go to bed. I do, I do, gratitude that my what I'm grateful for and I discovered that I'm grateful for a lot of lot more things than I would realize if I hadn't thought about it.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Yeah, which is really, really good. And so adding to that that gratitude list. What are you grateful for about you.
Donna Jochimsen: Well, that isn't usually on my list.
Donna Jochimsen: Well, I'm grateful that I'm here.
Donna Jochimsen: I'm grateful that I'm that I'm trying to do to do better.
Donna Jochimsen: I don't know.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Or even just, you know, writing in in an affirmation and putting it on your mirror that says I am enough
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: That, to me, that's such a powerful statement, you know, because we, you know, throughout our life as women. We've always low self esteem, YOU KNOW, SOCIETY plays a part in that. But relationships that we've had plays a part in that.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: You know, think guilt and shame you know never feeling good enough, as a parent, or as a partner, all of that plays into our self worth, and our self esteem and if we if we could get to a point where we are telling ourselves you know that we are good enough and we are enough
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: And acting in that manner.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: By making sure that our self care is handled making
Donna Jochimsen: Yeah.
Donna Jochimsen: Oh, I think you froze.
Donna Jochimsen: I don't know if my Internets having problems or wet but
Donna Jochimsen: Come on.
Donna Jochimsen: I don't know if you can hear me, but I can't. I've lost you.
Donna Jochimsen: Let me see.
Donna Jochimsen: I'm not sure what to do about that.
Donna Jochimsen: Yep.
Donna Jochimsen: And I lost you there.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Don't know zoom hasn't been my friends. The last couple days.
Donna Jochimsen: The weather really sucks here too and that it could be my internet also
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: So okay, so we're going to build on self esteem and emotional regulation and getting out of your comfort zone.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: All right.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: And learning different things, different techniques to help build your self esteem.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: And let's see, we will put a
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: put a date on it from a month from today. So the end of February will take a look at the different things that we've went through and that we worked on.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: And see how it is that we need to adjust it a little bit. Okay. Alright, so the few things that you're, you get to do this week is take a look at those groups. Uh huh.
Donna Jochimsen: Definitely
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Start sending texts to your children.
Donna Jochimsen: I can do that.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: On a morning basis and just, again, you know, wishing them you know great days.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: letting him know that you love them. Yep. And on your gratitude list at night.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Writing on their different ways that you're grateful for, for yourself as well.
Donna Jochimsen: Okay.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: So that's where we're going to start. Okay.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Yep. And then
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Next week we'll, we'll start working on some emotion regulation skills.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Okay. All right. And then we'll build from there.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Alright, sounds like a plan.
Donna Jochimsen: Yep. Sounds like a plan. Thank you.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Okay, so one one baby step at a time.
Donna Jochimsen: Okay, and I do feel like I'm in the right place. I like. Thank you.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Good. I think you are too. Okay, so I will let you go and start your day and I will talk to you later. Okay, so is this time, good for you, because we can keep this time.
Donna Jochimsen: This time is fine. I'm on Earth. I get up early. So it's five
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Okay, alright, so I'll just set you out a couple of appointments. The next four appointments for this time and Tuesday 8am on a weekly basis.
Donna Jochimsen: Okay, yep. That works.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Okay, awesome.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Alright done or I will talk to you later.
Donna Jochimsen: All right, thank you back.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Okay, bye.